In this document, I will discuss various empirical papers discussing
cyclicality of bid-ask spreads, liqudity in general, and its relationship with
stock trading volumne. The papers I am going to discuss are classics. These
are:

An Empirical Analysis of Stock and Bond Market Liquidity
--------------------------------------------------------

Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns
-----------------------------------------
This is a very interesting and through paper. Stock market liquidity is
measures as the impact of order flow on stock returns. (I do not understand
what order flow is). This measurement is motivated by Camplbell's 1993 paper.
The authors find the the sensitivity of a stock to aggregate liquidity is a
pricing factors, and sensitive stocks require a larger compensation.
Empirically, liquidity is particularly low during bear markets, which is in
line with the empricial analysis of the paper below.

A Century OF Stock Market Liquidity and Trading Costs
-----------------------------------------------------
This paper analyses the predictive power of liquidity on annual expected stock
returns several yeards ahead. The author concludes that liquidity predicts
stock returns inversely:  High liquidity leads to low stock returns and vice
versa. Liquidity is measured as the aggregate bid-ask spready normalized by
stock prices. The dataset spans 1900-2000, and bid-ask spreads are construed
from various sources. Since 1993, bid-ask spreads seem to be of high quality
and are provided by the ``Trades and Quotes`` (TAQ) database provided by the
NYSE. Whilst I like the paper due to its simplicity and long dataset, I am not
entirely convinced by the findings of the paper. The authors normalize spread
by the stock price, and thanks for Shillers work we know that low
dividend-price ratios are one of the best predictors of low future stock
returns. Nevertheless, one of the regressions of the author does control for
the dividend-price ratio and the predictive power of normalized bid-ask spread
is preserved. 


Do liquidity measures measure liquidity
--------------------------------------
This is a very interesting paper comparing different liquidity measurements.
There are are several different liqudity measurements and it is often not clear
which one one should use. Most of these liquditiy measurements are
approximations and often chosen due to its (relative) simplicity of
calculations. The authors calculate a high quality measurement of bid-ask
spreads from high frequency data taken from the TAQ database. This measurement
is then related to popular liqudity measurements which are often not that
difficult to compute. The authors shows that several measurements are good. In
particular, the Roll (1984) effective bid-ask spread seems to be a good
measure. There are several other more modern good measurements which I did not
know. Interestingy, the authors suggests that the measurement taken in
``Liqudity Risk and Expected Stock Returns`` is not that good.


Differential Interpretation of Public Signals and Trade in Speculative Markets
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commonality in Liquidity
------------------------
This is another fascinating paper. The paper documents that liquidity movements
of stocks are correlated among each other. The paper begins by stressing that
so far liquidity has been studied in isolation for each stock. The authors
however ask if liquidity movements of one stock correlate with the variation in
liquidity of another stock. The authors document that there is indeed a strong
common component of liquiditiy variations across stocks. The authors do not
related this common component to any industry wide factors of the business
cycles but leave this question open for further research.
